Hey long time no see it's it's been a while but I'm glad you're back and I'm I'm glad you're still hanging
in there.
Trust me thinks things are going to get a lot more fun once we actually start building applications.
But we do have to go through the basics so hang in there.
Now you may have heard me mention methods and functions before and I briefly touched on the subject
right.
We have functions like list print we have things like Max man what else do we have.
We have input.
These are all built in functions in Python.
Python just comes with this and we're able to use them.
And we also learned about functions that we can create ourselves custom functions like well some random
stuff and I just created a function that does absolutely nothing I can just pass through and these are
all functions because the way we call them is Well we say some random stuff and then we call it with
the brackets and give it some sort of data or leave it empty but we also learned about methods and methods
were different because the way we used them was using the dot notation we said Dot something.
For example if we had a string hello and I do dot I get a list of all these methods that the string
data type can use.
These aren't things that we can use like this because if I do capitalize
like this well it's going to give me an error.
It's going to say well I'm going to get an error with Max because it's expecting an argument here bullets
comet this out and click Run Again I get named capitalized is not defined because it's not a function
it's a method and then method has to be owned by something and who owns a method well whatever is to
the left of the dot in our case the string owns the method capitalized and that's what methods are they're
built in objects that have methods such as strings dictionaries sets topples all the things we've talked
about where as soon as we do dot we have access to all these methods they're owned by an object or a
data type.
And the fun thing is that there's a ways to build your own methods and I'll show you how to do that
later on and when we start talking about classes but he can see here that our editors help us determine
what type of methods that we can use.
And again these are built into python and you can also learn about these methods that we can use by
going to the Python documentation right.
Python 3 documentation is going to have a ton of things for us if we go to library reference for example
we can see here that we can learn about built in types.
So let's go to let's go to the set types.
And here you can see that we have set type.
And it shows us how we can use it.
Now Python doesn't have the easiest documentation to read for beginners unfortunately.
So sometimes it's better to actually just Google instead of going through the actual documentation but
you see here that the set type has clear has pop has remove if we want to use it we have update.
And these are the methods that we can use but at the end of the day both methods and functions allow
us to take actions right to take actions on our data types to have our programs do something.
And although they have these different names and one has a dot in front of it and another one while
we can just call it like this.
The difference is very minimal.
But keep that in mind when you hear people talking about methods and functions there is that difference.
And like I said before we will get two methods when we talk about classes to show you how we can create
our own.
I'll see in the next one.
Bob.